a caterpillar yes you did hear me right
a caterpillar
with a very unusual choice of chow
versus the bizarre long beaked pink
dolphin
that stalks the kohler brown waters of
the amazon rivers which of these moments
from deadly 60 do you think is going to
win
our deadly showdown
this is deadly showdowns it's the
opportunity i've been longing for
to take two magical moments from the
history of deadly
and put them head to head and this time
round we're dealing with
two tall tales of the unexpected
so who's up first well this is
a caterpillar yes that's right
a caterpillar most of the time on deadly
the stories for the animals we deal with
come from me they come from my
research and my little black book of
animals i've always wanted to go out and
find
but sometimes an idea comes in from one
of my amazing
deadly team one of the guys his name was
toby
he's a very talented young man came in
with an idea that in hawaii
we should film a caterpillar a
carnivorous caterpillar
i didn't even know that was a thing
don't be fooled there is a hidden killer
lurking here
but it's so fast and so good at not
being seen that i probably won't even be
able to see it with my naked eye and
instead
i'm going to need a little bit of deadly
technology
why why would a caterpillar evolve to
feed
on flying insects there must be a lack
of other perhaps
parasitic wasps or other things that
would normally feed on flying insects
that would have allowed over deep time
this caterpillar to have evolved
the ability to feast on flying critters
and that just completely blew my mind
from there on in
i had to follow toby's judgment and we
had to go and find this little
caterpillar called
eupathesia when i say little it is
really really little it's no longer the
my
little fingernail every single place you
look
starts to turn into what you're
searching for
it completely messes with your mind and
then
yes got one
it's so brilliant honestly i could have
been staring at this plant for
ages and not seen it okay
now i don't know if you can better see
this with the camera but
lying along the edge of this leaf here
lying perfectly flush with it and
exactly the same color
is a caterpillar they just wait until
little hair at the base of the body is
triggered
and the second something triggers that
the whole body whips back
so fast that you would just never see it
with the naked eye and ensnares
whatever it is that's triggered it to be
able to film
eupathesia in action was going to be a
real challenge
because it needed to be magnified the
animal is very very small
and it had to be slowed right down so we
had to be filming
in high speed so we needed a special
camera
the right kind of lenses everything had
to be set up on tripods
and the chances of us waiting there for
days and days until an insect
actually triggered the caterpillar was
just not going to happen so instead
i had a pair of tweezers with a little
flying insect
and i just flicked the tail of the
caterpillar and then we were going to
film and see what happened
i kind of didn't think it was going to
work tiny little grasshopper
yes that is just
[Music]
fabulous
it was i think one of the most
unexpected things i've ever seen in
natural history and
one of those great reminders of why it
is that
the wild world is so fascinating because
no matter how much you think you know
you
never know everything
so the second of my contenders has to be
one of the most curious bizarre swimming
wild weirdos
in the world the pink river dolphin
these animals just kind of seem to be a
fantasy
a pink dolphin with a great big long
snout
filled with little points of cone-shaped
teeth that it uses to devour fish
below the surfaces of these brown tannic
rivers which
you can't see anything in in the amazon
but it's real
and it's in its own way incredibly
charming
there are several places where you can
find pink river dolphins
but only one where you can really get in
the water with them and see them up
close
and that's relatively close to the town
of manaus in brazil
so you shunter upriver in these rather
magnificent
big steaming houseboats and finally get
to this place where the dolphins are
used
to encountering people into being fed
and the encounters started at the side
of the river with me having a bucket of
fish
and just slapping them on the water
hoping that eventually
maybe we would catch a fleeting glimpse
of a pink river dolphin
instead within seconds a squadron
turned up oh look at that look
i don't believe it no no no look
the next thing that we had to do was to
get into the water alongside them you
know one of the things that we tried to
do
lots over the years on deadly is to
experience an animal in its world
on its own terms and so i had to slide
into the waters which have the the kind
of the color
of of cola because they're filled with
tannins these these chemicals that leach
out of the roots
of the the plants that are there in the
river and you can
kind of see in it like a meter or so and
then you see these
pink shapes kind of looming out of the
brown coming towards you
banking away and jumping above the
surface to snap at the fish in my hands
i guess dolphins are one of those
animals that we think of as being super
cute and adorable
and cuddly but they are a potent
predator that is the
master of their aquatic world
very strong when they uh when they
thrash against you you can feel that
they are just
one packed
muscle and
when they want the fish they take it
amazing he just decided he wanted rich's
boom pole the sound man
look at it he's going for it again i
think he's decided that uh
richard's boom pole's food i
was bedazzled by this
utterly bizarre aquatic phenomenon
which hunts in amongst the mangrove
roots hunts for things like piranhas
which you know we placed on a deadly
list a dozen times
and so yeah full respect
for an animal oddity that has to be seen
to be believed
so who's going to win well the
unexpected was
certainly the caterpillar i didn't think
it was possible turned out it was
so my most unexpected deadly beast
is eupathesia the carnivorous
caterpillar
what did you think i mean they're both
pretty awesome but
that's definitely the one i'd have gone
for there are lots more deadly showdowns
on bbc earth kids
so head over there and press subscribe
there's also a lot more
deadly content as well but for now all
the very best from me
stevie b